[uptempo classical tune playing]
[gunshot]
[uptempo tune continues]
Pull!
[tempo slows]
[pigeon coos]
[tempo increases]
[piano music intensifies]
[neck cracks]
[crows cawing]
[breathes heavily]
[chews loudly]
[inhales sharply]
Would you please ask Miss Nolan
if my personal effects
have yet been removed
from the duke's bedchamber
and placed in the duchess's rooms?
Would you please inform Her Grace
that I will allow no such thing?
Should I really deliver the message,
Your Grace?
You cannot believe
I shall welcome you back into my bed
after your lies and deception?
[Simon] Rest assured,
marital relations
are the least of my concern
after your recent efforts.
Then for what other purpose
could you possibly wish to detain me?
[slams chalice] Because you are my wife.
[Daphne slams chalice]
It is customary for a wife
to reside in her own bedchamber
once the honeymoon is over…
a time that has well and truly passed,
would you not agree?
I will be kept informed
as to the success
of your conjugal endeavors.
I would never dream of concealing
the truth of such important matters.
-[door opens]
-Your Grace, Whistledown has just arrived.
-Well, you should…
-Is something wrong?
-We must pack straightaway.
-Yes, Your Grace.
What has happened?
My brother seems
to have been embroiled in scandal.
I must return to my family immediately.
-They will need me.
-I will accompany you.
This is a family matter.
Separate bedrooms may be tolerated.
Separate households will not be suffered.
I'll not let you out of my sight
until we know whether you are with child.
[scoffing chuckle]
Please request that His Grace
prepare his largest carriage.
I shall require my space.
[door closes]
[intense music playing]
[overlapping chatter]
[Lady Whistledown] Miss Marina Thompson's
recent fall from grace
continues to echo
through every drawing room in town,
days after it was revealed
her engagement to Colin Bridgerton
was nothing more than a sham.
Of course, a lady's disgrace
does not merely tarnish her own name.
Like the tars of the Thames,
it also leaves a horrid smear
on anyone nearby.
Hold still, ma chérie.
This scandal could very well
tarnish my debut, Mama.
Perhaps we should delay my coming out
altogether a few years.
Hush, child, all will be well.
Just keep smiling.
[Eloise] Can a smile be enough
to save the Featheringtons?
Penelope and her sisters
did nothing wrong,
but their reputation's destroyed.
You should be worrying about
your own family's fortunes at present.
We are in just as perilous position.
Lovely day, is it not, Lady Richmond?
It's this Whistledown.
I certainly never want to cross the woman.
Her word as good as gospel.
Yes.
Though, perhaps
if she can destroy a reputation…
she can restore one too.
[gasps theatrically]
Très élégante, Miss Bridgerton.
What a debutante you will be!
[chuckles]
[Lady Whistledown]
While there is no parasol in the world
strong enough to shelter a ruined woman,
the fallen Miss Thompson can only hope
she shall find a refuge…
somewhere.
-I am sorry, my lady, but we are full.
-This is an emergency.
The young lady's child
will have nowhere else to go.
You must make exceptions on occasion?
I should be able to procure a room
if one were to make a sizable donation.
[Featherington] But this is supposed to be
a charitable organization.
[nurse] Even charity requires funds,
of which you must have
considerable amounts, I presume?
I… [sighs]
-[horse neighs]
-[driver] Whoa there, boy. Whoa there!
We have arrived.
There is no need to act the jailer.
I shall not discover I am with child
within the next hour, shall I?
Miss Thompson must be in agonies
over these lies. Why can I not visit her?
-Colin--
-[Anthony] Listen to me.
That the ton devours
every bit of Whistledown's on-dit
is the only thing
keeping this family from shame.
Because of her, no one believes
you are the father
of Miss Thompson's child.
But if you were to go near her,
they'll presume you responsible
for her ruin,
and your sisters
will pay the price for your notoriety.
-Is this what you desire?
-Of course not, but--
-Evening, everyone.
-Dearest!
What are you doing here?
Should you not be frolicking
in newlywed bliss?
I came as swiftly as our carriage
would allow when I heard the news.
In the middle of your honeymoon?
Hastings must surely be cursing
the Bridgerton name for this.
Where is he, anyhow?
He went to set up Hastings House.
We have all things in order, Sister.
We do not require your assistance.
That is simply not true, and you know it.
Daphne may be
the answer to all of our problems.
Once the ton see that we still have
the favor of the duke and duchess,
then the whispers may very well cease,
and we shall go about our daily lives
as if nothing has happened,
as if nothing is awry.
And no one will be the wiser.
Pretending that nothing is amiss
is the perfect way
to lure the ignorant into submission.
Is it not, Mama?
Now, what grand event
will the ton be descending upon this week?
Surely there is something?
[clears throat] The, um…
The queen is hosting a luncheon.
I am certain
the duke and I can secure an invitation.
If we are lucky,
our return to London will give everyone
so much to talk about,
they simply have no breath left
to discuss other matters.
I'm so very glad
this has all been settled on my behalf.
[door slams]
-[knocking on door]
-[door opens]
[Daphne] You really wanted to marry her?
I did.
Well, then,
perhaps we should count you lucky
to not have married a stranger.
-She was not a stranger.
-She was, Brother.
-Whistledown knew her better than you.
-Whistledown knows everyone's secrets.
You're lucky
to have learned Miss Thompson's now,
instead of after your wedding day.
I know you must think me a fool…
but my heart pays no heed to mere logic.
When I think of her,
I only want to be near her,
to be with her…
despite all reason otherwise.
I know that madness well…
but you cannot visit her.
Leander swam Abydos to Sestos
every single night in complete darkness
just to see his love.
Leander also lost his way and drowned.
So the story goes.
Did something happen, Sister,
back at Clyvedon?
[inhales sharply]
If you really must speak
with Miss Thompson,
perhaps I can arrange a rendezvous.
Chaperoned, obviously.
I would appreciate that.
You will see my passions are not in vain.
[both grunting, groaning]
Always were a fast learner, friend.
But I should probably conserve my energies
for my exhibitions,
instead of spending them on your troubles.
Are you about to cede to me?
Surely that will not help
with your exhibitions?
I've not seen you this incensed
since you were handed the keys
to your dukedom.
-I will not speak of my dukedom.
-[chuckles] Fair enough.
I presume you won't speak of what happened
on your honeymoon, either.
Nothing happened on my honeymoon.
I cannot imagine your wife feeling
particularly excited about that.
I suggest you do not try to imagine
anything to do with my wife's feelings…
or actions, for that matter. [grunts]
[both panting]
It follows no reason or sense, does it?
-What?
-Marriage.
And there is not a bloody thing
you can do about it.
-I took a vow.
-Ah.
See what I mean?
Fast learner, indeed.
[sighs sharply]
[sighs]
[sighs deeply]
[footsteps approaching]
[gasps sharply]
[Simon] You are still awake?
I have already seen you.
The queen is holding a luncheon this week.
We will need to attend with my brother
to signal our support.
Where have you been all night?
I did not think you concerned
about my whereabouts.
Is this truly
what our marriage will be for the future?
You out all night, doing God knows what
with God knows whom?
"With whom?"
You wound me.
Not three weeks since we were wed,
yet already you imagine me disloyal.
Is it such a wild imagining?
We both know your reputation, Your Grace.
It is clear that you find
there is nothing left in our marriage.
Nothing left?
It is what I said.
Is it what you believe?
[Daphne moans]
[Daphne gasps]
-Simon.
-Daphne.
-I want you--
-Shh.
[Daphne moans]
[Daphne gasping]
[Daphne] Oh!
[Daphne grunting, panting]
[Daphne gasping]
Should we go into the bedroom…
and finish what we started?
No.
What is to become of us? Simon?
If you are with child, then I shall stay
and do my duty to support you both.
And if I am not?
Then we shall remain married
in name only.
[Daphne gasps]
You will be provided for, of course,
in a manner befitting the duchess.
But I shall not
darken your doorstep again.
Our lives will be entirely separate.
This…
This cannot happen.
This will not happen.
Do you understand me?
That we no longer trust each other?
Yes, Your Grace.
I understand that quite well.
[door slams]
[door opens]
[Daphne clears throat]
Miss Thompson.
Thank you for joining us.
I did not realize I had a choice.
My brother wished for an audience.
And I wish to avoid any further scandal
attached to my family's name.
I will remain here as a chaperone.
Marina… you must tell me
that this Whistledown woman is mistaken.
What she wrote, it cannot be true.
But it is.
You are with child?
I do not understand.
We were to be wed.
You… You said you loved me.
-Colin, I hold you in the greatest esteem.
-"Esteem"?
You are a cruel woman indeed to stand here
and talk of friendly affection,
as if you have not just committed
a grave sin against me.
Speak not of sin, Mr. Bridgerton.
I did not come here
to be shamed by you, nor anyone else.
I did not know better.
You may think me a villain,
but I did what I thought I must.
No one ever truly helped me,
or guided me in a different direction.
I had no choice.
I needed to wed.
And you, you were the only man
who offered me
even a glimpse of happiness.
So I should feel flattered, then?
Consider myself lucky that you chose me,
lied to me, tried to trick me
into a fraud of a marriage?
I shall take my leave of you
for the last time, Miss Thompson.
You wish to know
the cruelest part of your deception?
If you had simply come to me
and told me of your situation…
I'd have married you
without a second thought.
That is how in love
I believed myself to be.
But I see now that was all a lie.
[door slams]
[inhales]
I believe I would like to return home now.
After all, we don't want another scandal
attached to your family name.
[door opens]
The carriage is waiting, ma'am.
We must prepare for the queen's luncheon.
Of course.
[violin quintet playing]
[guests chattering]
Oh, is this not lovely?
All of us together again.
Lovely, indeed.
We should tempt scandal more often.
-Duchess, may I say how well you look?
-Oh, you are too kind.
Is it not marvelous to be wed?
It is both a joy and a wonder indeed.
[Queen Charlotte] Make way!
Must you all act
like sheep flocking to the trough?
I have 100 guineas wagered
on there being a Hastings heir
within the year.
Are you yet with child?
We have certainly been
devoting our energies
to the endeavor, Your Majesty.
We should hope
to see our queen soon satisfied.
See to it that you do.
Your duplicity comes so naturally.
I seem to have learned from the best.
I've missed you at the studio of late.
You must join me
for another drawing lesson.
As I said,
improvement is all a matter of practice.
At least, that is the excuse he gives
for coming home with paint
in all kinds of peculiar places.
-[giggles]
-[Henry chuckles]
[Henry] Ah!
Were you able to meet
my friend Wetherby at my party?
-Come, I shall introduce you.
-No, thank you.
I-- I see my mother requires my presence.
Good day!
Her Majesty requires an audience.
With-- With me? Now?
Ah. Here.
[dog barking]
Shoo.
Who is she?
Your Majesty?
-Whistledown!
-Oh.
I tasked you
with unmasking the scandalmonger.
Believe me, I am intent on locating her
and am angry at myself
for having not yet uncovered her identity.
But I was thinking--
Clearly not fast enough.
My patience has limits.
-Mm.
-Get me an answer.
Your queen commands it.
Of course.
Your Majesty. [clears throat]
So, you have returned.
Excellent timing,
what with all the tittle-tattle
concerning your brother.
Oh, a mere coincidence,
Lady Danbury, I am sure.
Mm. Your plan is working.
I have heard nary a peep
about Mr. Bridgerton's
unfortunate entanglement
with the Thompson girl.
Oh, I almost forgot.
I am hosting a party
I would very much like you to attend.
We love a good party.
I am not sure
when we will be accepting invitations.
It is an invitation for one.
Only you, Your Grace.
A special soiree
with the married ladies of the ton,
of which you are the newest member.
[inaudible murmuring]
The audacity.
After they tried
to entrap poor Mr. Bridgerton
into marriage with a woman with child.
[Lady Cowper scoffs]
Pen…
How are you faring?
Has it been terrible at the house?
We've not had a caller in three days.
My mother swears we are ruined.
But what of Colin?
Is he in pieces from the news?
His pride is wounded,
but he will be quite well.
The gentlemen always are
in these matters, but…
Pen, you have not heard
what people are saying.
Lady Whistledown
has gone too far this time.
And I thought you her greatest admirer.
Not when she has smeared
the name of my greatest friend.
When we uncover Whistledown's identity,
we will convince her
to publish a retraction
and restore your family's reputation.
All will be well again, I promise you.
My dear Lady Bridgerton…
is this not a dreadful circumstance,
for us both to have been so duped
by that scheming hussy?
To think that Miss Thompson
would take advantage of my kindness
after I opened my home to her.
You must believe,
I had no idea of--
Lady Featherington,
I must ask you to leave.
-But I have an invitation.
-Not anymore.
I am sure you wish to avoid
any further unpleasantness.
-That should teach them.
-[Lady Cowper snickers]
Teach them what, Miss Cowper?
Judging not, lest we too be judged?
[Daphne sighs]
Something troubles you.
I know you are a grown woman now,
but I am still your mother,
and you can come to me
when you need advice.
Marriage has its joys,
but it also brings with it
its special trials.
In that, you are correct.
My marriage is far from perfect.
Well, then, share your thoughts.
Perhaps I can offer my wisdom.
Or perhaps you will send me off
with more vague metaphors
and trite remarks.
Darling, I--
I am… merely trying to be of help.
Do you know
what might have truly helped matters?
If your motherly advice
had actually prepared me to wed.
-Whatever do you mean?
-I mean you sent me out into the world
no better than a fool.
You taught me how to play pretend,
but nothing
of the realities of married life,
of marital relations.
If you had informed me about the things
that were truly important,
if I'd have known the truth,
then perhaps I--
Daphne!
It is the heat.
The duchess is quite overcome.
We were ridiculed by all today,
treated as though we were worthless,
and it's all your fault.
How could I have been at fault?
I was not even there.
If it were not for your habit,
we'd have been able
to rid ourselves of Miss Thompson
the moment we learned of her condition.
[shakily] None of this
would have happened.
My lady.
The Duchess of Hastings…
She is here.
I am so glad
you thought to visit us, Your Grace.
I fear your mother was rather heated
at the luncheon.
But of course,
if you have come to offer an explanation…
I require a word with Miss Thompson.
Alone.
Well…
For what it is worth, I am sorry.
Your brother is a sweet boy.
You do not need to--
[inhales sharply]
I came here to apologize to you.
To me?
I misjudged you, and I wanted to tell you
that what you felt you had to do…
I understand.
I wish it had not happened this way.
You are certainly not the only one.
George was a soldier…
but he was also gentle and kind.
He was perfect.
I fancied myself in love.
The next thing I knew, my courses stopped,
and I found myself with child, and…
and alone.
[inhales sharply]
What is Sir George's surname?
Or do you know
where he is stationed, his regiment?
Whatever for, Your Grace?
I hear General Langham
and his wife are in London.
Perhaps I could speak to him or her
and have…
have Sir George found.
What use would that be?
George does not want to be with me.
But do you really want to be alone?
No rank, no protection,
no support for you or your child.
Surely anything is better than that.
Why should he be the one
to choose your future
when he clearly cares not for the outcome?
He is at fault here.
Perhaps I can make him come back…
and take responsibility
for you and his child.
Why should you be left all alone
to bear the punishment for his crime?
You truly think you can do this?
I assure you, Miss Thompson…
I am quite capable
of doing more than you think.
I have defeated the best, and
I'm confident I shall continue to do so.
Mm.
There is an appetite for my exhibitions,
but they are expensive, which is why--
I am not here to invest.
I have a more lucrative proposition
in mind.
Say, for you and I
to come to some arrangement…
as to the outcome of your next fight?
I'm sorry
to have taken your time, my lord,
but I think you would be wise to leave.
And you'd be wise to listen.
Would you rather stake your fortunes
on the outcome of a business scheme,
which may very well fail,
or back the sure thing?
You agree to throw your next match…
and I will make such a wager
on your opponent
that even half my winnings
will set you and your family up for life.
My honor is not for sale.
[tense music plays]
There is a reason
your backers are dwindling, Mr. Mondrich.
You're a performer, a mere entertainment.
We are happy to trade wages
on the outcome of your fists,
but no gentleman will ever see you
as a respectable man of business.
I know you have a fighting spirit…
passed down by your father, no doubt.
He was a soldier, yeah?
Managed to flee the colonies
after serving in Dunmore's regiment.
Do you think he sought his freedom
all for his future son
to become some exhausted fighter,
stumbling into the ring
to put food on the table for his family?
Do not dare speak of my family.
[breathing heavily]
Of course.
I… I apologize.
[breathes heavily]
I only mean to say, I…
I'm doing this for my family too.
Look, one simple arrangement,
and both our problems will be solved.
I merely ask that you have a think on it…
at the very least.
[Rose] The ton has been desperate
for you since you returned.
We've been drowning in calling cards.
Lady Danbury requires your attendance
at her party on Thursday.
Mm. A collection of married ladies.
I can only imagine
the questions they will have for me.
I shall inform her footman that
you are not feeling well from the travel.
-Your Grace.
Do you suppose the general's wife will be
in attendance at Lady Danbury's soiree?
Mrs. Langham?
I heard she enjoys society.
Then send word back.
I would love to attend.
[boisterous chatter and laughter]
Your Grace.
Welcome to my den of iniquity.
I believe you already know
Lady Trowbridge, Your Grace,
but have you met Lucy Granville?
And this is Kitty Langham.
The general's wife, yes.
Well, lovely to meet you all.
Well, do not just stare.
Deal the duchess in.
We shall teach you the rules.
First, a woman takes her wedding vows,
then we gamblers take her virtue.
-If her husband has left any to be taken.
-[women laughing]
[Lady Danbury] Have no fear.
Each turn, all you have to do
is set your token on the card
you believe the dealer will turn over.
Now, ladies, place your bets.
Takes away the sting of losing,
I rather think.
[Lady Danbury]
The duchess is a quick study.
I'm sure she will have
the measure of things in no time.
All it takes is
a little practice and perseverance.
[Lady Trowbridge groans]
Oh!
Evening, Your Grace.
It's funny meeting you here.
I am utterly comical.
-You've been avoiding me.
-Now you are being the jester.
If you're not avoiding my company,
you won't mind if I join you for a drink?
[door opens]
[indistinct chatter and laughter]
-I shall need a large glass.
-[waiter] Yes, sir.
[excited chatter]
[Lady Trowbridge groans]
The earl would have my head
if he knew how much money I have lost.
The earl is but two years old.
Hmm. Well, then, I'm in luck, am I not?
[women laughing]
Seems I have been blessed
with some beginner's luck.
The game is not over yet, Your Grace.
[Daphne chuckles]
I wonder, Mrs. Langham--
"Kitty," please.
You have won so much of my money,
it is only right.
[chuckles] Kitty, then.
There is a soldier in service
I am hoping to find for a friend.
Do you think your husband
might be able to assist me?
You will have to ask that of him yourself.
He is so rarely at home.
I am so sorry.
[chuckles] Whatever for?
It is quite the ideal situation
to live a separate life to one's husband.
I am afforded all the freedoms of marriage
while bearing none of the burden
of his company.
Well, what of your children?
Do they not miss their father?
It's difficult to miss
someone you've never known.
You forget the duchess is still
in the first bloom of marriage.
Yes, the famous love match.
-[chuckles]
-Pay me no heed.
The duke's company, I am sure,
is anything but a burden to you.
I can tell you where to write. My husband.
Perhaps the general
will grant you a response.
It is not as if you are his wife.
[both chuckle]
Duchess, you win again!
[Daphne laughs]
Seeing how you entertain yourself,
I rather think
you the victor, Lady Danbury.
-[Kitty laughs]
-I rather think so too.
Again.
[chuckles]
It's a fine color.
And the bubbles…
[satisfied exhale]
Just right.
Don't get me wrong. I love a good brandy.
-But sometimes, nothing'll do but a beer.
-Would you just get to the point?
-I don't know what you're talking about.
-Yes, you do.
You're correct. I do.
Just like I know that you've obviously
made a considerable error with my sister.
How, may I ask, could you infer
that I was the one to make the error?
Well, I know my sister quite well.
And while she is
an unusually capable woman,
she is not capable
of fucking up this severely.
Do you not ever get tired
of pretending to be so perfect?
-[Anthony chuckles]
-It's exhausting just watching you.
We may not be perfect,
but at least we keep our promises.
You know nothing of my commitments.
I'm trying to be a man of my word.
I am trying to keep--
[Simon sighs]
-I wouldn't expect you to understand.
-What do you mean by that?
I mean that you leave
a litany of broken promises
behind you everywhere you go.
Your duty to protect Daphne
from Nigel Berbrooke?
What about your own reckless affairs,
seeing that opera singer
you believe no one knows about?
You judge me,
yet you can't understand
the responsibility of heading a family,
because you've never had one.
But Daphne is my family now,
and there is no changing that.
Though it is most unfortunate
that I shall never quite reach
the lofty ideal you have demonstrated.
What is most unfortunate is the fact
that your father was so absent,
he never gave you a proper example
of how to lead a household.
Well,
you certainly make it look difficult.
-I beg your pardon?
-With your constant struggles.
-You cannot manage it, can you?
-Hastings--
Your responsibility.
You, fulfilling the promise
that every firstborn son makes
to his father before he dies.
[Anthony exhales deeply]
Do you think
he is looking down on you now, ashamed?
Mortified at what you have done?
I wonder,
what would the former viscount say?
[Anthony roars]
[both grunting]
[man 1] Calm down! Get off him!
-[indistinct yelling]
-[man 2] Calm down!
[man 1] Get off!
-[Anthony grunting]
-[Simon panting]
[Simon sighs softly]
It seems I became a little too rough
training with Will.
-Shall I call for Jeffries?
-No.
Let me.
With four brothers,
you cannot imagine the nasty cuts
I have tended to over the years. [laughs]
[inhales sharply, grunts]
[soft music playing]
Why will you not unfold yourself to me?
Daphne…
A child would be a blessing.
Tell me why you are so adamant.
Because I swore a long time ago
that I would never sire a child.
I do not understand.
My father…
cared more about the continuation
of the Hastings line…
than anything in the world.
More than my mother.
More than me.
And so I made a vow
that his efforts would be in vain…
that the line would die with me.
So this is all…
because of a vow?
You made a vow to me too. Or…
Or has our wedding day slipped your mind?
I told you--
You told me
that you could not have children.
You did not tell me it was some--
some token of revenge
against a man
who no longer walks this earth.
I swore to him on his deathbed.
And you betrayed me in our marriage bed.
Let me be certain I understand.
You will neither have children,
nor the happiness we could have together,
because you promised
your father you would not?
I…
[Daphne] Say it.
Say it.
It cannot be undone.
Then I thank you
for your elucidation, Your Grace.
If your hatred for your father outweighs
any affection
that you might bear towards me…
then you are right.
It cannot be undone.
My courses are due
within the next few days.
You will know then
which vow you have broken,
and how we are to spend
the rest of our lives,
miserable together…
or perfectly happy apart.
[Lady Whistledown]
Dearest reader, a question.
Is anything more exhilarating
than taking a gamble?
For it is often the highest risk
that carries the greatest reward.
Yet, wager wrongly,
and you might find yourself left
with nothing but regret.
-Ensure it is delivered to this address.
-Yes, Your Grace.
[Lady Whistledown]
Of course, one can never know for sure
whether a wager
will make a fortune or ruin it,
unless one chooses a more secure pursuit.
But as the season continues,
the biggest gamblers
have yet to truly show their hand…
which leaves gossip
in short supply in recent days.
In fact, this author can think
of no other event that merits a mention.
"No other event."
But my luncheon.
At least she did not say anything odious.
It is far worse.
She wrote nothing.
[Lady Whistledown]
It is worthy of note, however,
that the Duke and Duchess of Hastings
have yet to entertain callers together.
Our newlyweds are no doubt still secluded
in nuptial bliss.
Who could fault them?
And who could be surprised
if their diligent efforts are rewarded
with a new arrival within the year?
In the past, every Whistledown revelation
appeared to be plucked
from a public event,
where any of our ton
could have borne witness.
But the column
that singled out Marina was different.
It was personal.
Your mama did not just help Marina
hide her condition all on her own.
Of course not.
Every servant in our household knew.
A servant is unlikely.
Though, perhaps a tradesperson.
Someone who visited
your household regularly
might have seen or overheard something.
It is a possibility.
In that case, we must reconsider
our methods of inquiry to this end.
This is wonderful, Pen.
I must tell the queen of our new theory.
Then tell her at tonight's concert.
I know you are not yet out,
but I am sure your mama
would still allow you to attend.
Once we unmask Whistledown--
Yes, yes,
the Featherington honor will be restored.
I must return home.
I shall take the back stairs
so no one will see me.
And, El?
Thank you.
I wrote to General Langham,
and I have told him all about Sir George.
If he is a man of honor--
-You wrote to the general?
-Yes.
And did the duke
sign his name as well on this letter?
Well…
no.
But--
Marina, what is it?
The general will not concern himself
to write back to you, Your Grace.
You do not know that.
He will pay attention
to the words of a duchess.
He must.
Are you so unworldly?
I… I'm sorry.
I… Your help is greatly appreciated,
but there is nothing more you can do.
-Marina--
-It is over.
I have already accepted the fact.
Thank you for your efforts.
[Daphne sighs]
-Missing the concert?
-Indeed.
Not exactly in the mood
for music and finery this evening.
I want to apologize.
Are there locusts in the streets?
Blood in the Thames?
Are the end of days upon us already?
I may have been a trifle harsh with you.
And I'm sorry.
You merely wished to protect me
from my more…
foolish impulses.
So you admit it now?
You were acting a fool?
-As apologies go, this is certainly novel.
-Hush, you.
[Colin chuckles]
You may hurt now, but the pain will pass.
You have the love of all your family
and the honor of your actions.
Soon you will forget Miss Thompson's name,
and it will-- [sighs]
It will be
as if you never loved her at all.
And how have these precepts served you?
Aside from being
the most dismal, troubling ones
I've heard in quite some time.
It's a work in progress, to be sure.
[both chuckle]
I suppose I was surprised to hear
you wished to join us this evening.
And I suppose I must be grateful
for your restraint
in not using any feathers.
[Violet laughs]
-You look lovely.
-Mm.
Eloise… [sighs]
Taking your place in society should be
an exciting time in a young woman's life.
If you are not truly ready,
I shall not ask you to play pretend.
Perhaps I have been rushing you.
We need not hasten your coming out
before you feel prepared.
The queen will be in attendance
at tonight's concert, will she not?
I believe she will.
Then I am looking forward to it.
An exciting time indeed, Mama.
Are you ready?
I am.
[guests chattering]
[violin quintet playing]
[indistinct chatter]
Excuse me.
Sir Granville.
Bridgerton.
Sorry.
Excuse us.
I would simply like to understand your…
situation.
[Henry sighs]
-I would just like to understand.
-It is simple.
I am in love with Lord Wetherby.
You're married.
And our marriage affords my wife
her freedoms and protections.
It is a happier union
than most of the people in this room have,
I assure you.
What is the advantage for the young ladies
Lord Wetherby is courting?
-Do they also share this understanding?
-[chuckles]
What about honor? Romance?
What would you know of either?
We live under constant threat of danger.
I risk my life every day for love.
You have no idea what it is like
to be in a room
with someone you cannot live without…
and yet still feel
as though you are oceans apart.
Stealing your glances,
disguising your touches.
We cannot so much as smile at each other…
without first ensuring
no one else is watching.
It takes courage…
to live outside
the traditional expectations of society.
You talk of doing the same…
but perhaps it is merely just that…
all talk.
And so you see,
Your Majesty, it is clear as day.
Lady Whistledown works closely
with the members of the ton,
yet she is not a member herself.
She is a tradesperson.
Is that all?
I beg your pardon?
I am no longer in need of your services.
But, uh… my theory…
It is not necessary.
I have hired a team of Bow Street Runners
to do a proper investigation.
They will unmask Whistledown,
and she shall be made to pay
for her impertinence.
That noxious gossip rag…
will finally cease to exist.
You want to silence her?
-But there is still good she must do.
-[scoffs]
Child, go.
-How long is this concert?
-Three hours?
-[groans]
-Four?
Though, uh,
I certainly have already heard enough.
You are my most favorite brother.
Do you know that?
[horses neigh]
[clears throat]
I would like to make a stop
and pick up a friend.
A friend?
Should I not have a friend?
[Eloise chuckles]
I'm not bound by the rules of society.
-Please do not tell Mother.
-[scoffs]
Why are we at the modiste?
[shop door closes]
Mademoiselle Bridgerton!
This is my sister, Eloise,
and we will be dropping her at home.
[Benedict] Mm.
[Genevieve] Hmm.
How… How was your night, ma chérie?
It was…
everything I expected.
Horrible and terribly boring.
[chuckles]
So this is why you do not wish
to lower your hems? [laughs]
The entire ton were there,
and I did not have
a single worthwhile exchange.
The entire ton?
You mean,
everyone except for the Featheringtons?
-[Genevieve laughs]
-Yes, everyone except…
them.
Your mama did not just help Marina
hide her condition on her own.
Of course not.
Every servant in our household knew.
Though, perhaps a tradesperson?
I certainly never want to cross the woman.
Her word as good as gospel.
Is everything well, Eloise?
Hmm?
Yeah.
["The Four Seasons" by Vivaldi playing]
[teapot whistling]
[Vivaldi's "Four Seasons" continues]
[Daphne gasping lightly]
[gasps sharply]
Marina?
Can we talk?
Are you still awake?
[shouts] Marina!
Marina! Marina!
Mama!
Mama, make haste!
Marina? Marina, I'm here. It's okay.
[Penelope gasping]
[grunting]
[gasping, sobbing]
[Daphne gasping]
[crying]
[music ends]
[Daphne continues crying]
[sobbing]
[crying continues]
[instrumental music playing]